Journal of Data Science template (#498)
rstudio/rticles: inst/rmarkdown/templates/jds/skeleton/skeleton.Rmd

  affiliation: 3

affiliation:
- id: 1
  institution: "Department of Statistics, University of Achievement, Street Address, Country"
- id: 2
  institution: "Institution B"
- id: 3
  institution: "Institution C"

abstract: |
  This article presents a classification of disease severity for
  patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). CF is a genetic disease that dramatically
  decreases life expectancy and quality.  The disease is characterized by
  polymicrobial infections which lead to lung remodeling and airway mucus
  plugging. In order to quantify disease severity of CF patients and compute a
  continuous severity index measure, quantile regression, rankscores, and
  corresponding normalized ranks are calculated for CF patients. These ranks
  make use of the conditional distribution of lung function across a range of
  quantiles in order to quantify disease severity of CF.
keywords: 
  - Conditional distribution
  - Cystic fibrosis
  - Quantiles

# the following edits should be done by Journal typesetters
page: 1  # set the first page number
month: July
year: 2020
volume: xx
issue: xx
doi: "xx.xxxx/xxxxxxxxx"
received: "April, 2020"  # optional: comment it out if no received date

> accepted: "May, 2020"  # optional: comment it out if no accepted date

Reviewer: Will a Rmd user fill this ? Or will it be always done from the TeX file ? 

As it is targetting typesetters, I am wondering if this is really useful to provide Pandoc's variable for that.

bibliography: JDSbib.bib
output:
  rticles::jds_article: default
  bookdown::pdf_book:
    base_format: rticles::jds_article # for using bookdown features like \@ref()
---

```{r setup, include = FALSE, echo = FALSE, purl = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = FALSE)

# deactivate addition of preamble when this format is used with bookdown

> options(bookdown.theorem.preamble = FALSE)

Reviewer: I believe this should be done always for this format right ? 

I think we should add this option to be set in the format function directly so that user does not need to care about that. 

What do you think ?

```

# Introduction {#sec:intro}

This is a template for both the review version and the production
version of JDS articles. They corresponds to two options of document

> class \texttt{jds}: \texttt{review} and \texttt{inpress}.

Reviewer: Using `\texttt` is equivalent to using backticks in Markdown I believe. 

Maybe we should prefer Markdown syntax

```suggestion
class `jds`: `review` and `inpress`.
```

    \midrule
    Summer                     & $\lambda_1$                          & 2.841                               & 0.459 & 1.090 & 0.280 \\
                               & $\lambda_0$                          & 0.179                               & 0.014 & 0.158 & 0.015 \\
                               & $\sigma$                             & 1.335                               & 0.106 & 0.999 & 0.104 \\
                               & $\sigma_\epsilon (\times 10^{-2})$   & 1.854                               & 0.087 & 1.879 & 0.078 \\
    Winter                     & $\lambda_1$                          & 6.225                               & 0.825 & 4.720 & 0.711 \\
                               & $\lambda_0$                          & 0.118                               & 0.010 & 0.114 & 0.009 \\
                               & $\sigma$                             & 1.506                               & 0.095 & 1.454 & 0.089 \\
                               & $\sigma_\epsilon (\times 10^{-2})$   & 0.908                               & 0.036 & 0.934 & 0.043 \\
    \bottomrule
  \end{tabular}
\end{table}

> 

Reviewer: Should we show example using **knitr** with `booktabs = TRUE` ? 

This would allow also the test of this format to check that knitr tables are working

# Figures {#sec:figs}

Vector graphics do not lose clarity when being scaled. Make your
figure in pdf format when you first generate it and keep in mind its
sizes in the article to avoid over-scaling. Do not simply convert a
jpeg or png image to a pdf.

> 

Reviewer: Should we add a plot example for that ? 

I don't remember if `.pdf` figure is the default for LaTeX output, I believe it is. So nothing specific to configure?

# Code {#sec:code}

> The document class \texttt{jds} provides several commands to decorate
> \begin{itemize}
>   \item inline code, such as \code{print("Hello world!")};
>   \item programming language, such as \proglang{R}, \proglang{Python}, and
>         \proglang{C++};
>   \item software package, such as \pkg{stats}, \pkg{utils}.
> \end{itemize}

Reviewer: What about converting to Markdown here and not just insert the LaTeX syntax ? 

Should be somethink like 

```suggestion
The document class `jds` provides several commands to decorate

- inline code with `\code{}`, such as \code{print("Hello world!")};
- programming language with `\proglang{}`, such as \proglang{R}, \proglang{Python}, and
        \proglang{C++};
- software package with `\pkg`, such as \pkg{stats}, \pkg{utils}.
```

# Guide for Authors {#sec:guide-authors}

The following requirements must be followed as closely as possible. A
technically acceptable manuscript that fails to follow these requirements may be
returned for retyping, leading to delay in publication.We only accept
submissions in PDF format. The Latex file must be provided after the manuscript

> is accepted.

Reviewer: Oh they accept only the PDF, maybe that is why the block

```
page: 1  # set the first page number
month: July
year: 2020
volume: xx
issue: xx
doi: "xx.xxxx/xxxxxxxxx"
received: "April, 2020"  # optional: comment it out if no received date
accepted: "May, 2020"  # optional: comment it out if no accepted date
```

is still important to have. 🤔

  <!-- should be brief, goes above the table. A detailed description of its contents -->
  <!-- or table footnotes should be given directly below the body of the table. -->
<!-- \item References: References must be published work, and numbered consecutively -->
  <!-- in order of their first citation. References should be listed individually at -->
  <!-- the end of the text and indicated in the text with a superscript number in -->
  <!-- square brackets. All of the references’ authors, as well as the titles of the -->
  <!-- referenced articles, should be given. -->
<!-- \item Proofs: Authors will receive a letter informing them whether the -->
  <!-- manuscript is accepted or rejected in two months. Authors should return their -->
  <!-- revisions to the Manuscript Office within one month on receipt. When an -->
  <!-- article has been amended in compliance with the comments of referee(s), an -->
  <!-- electronic file of the final version should be sent with the revised -->
  <!-- manuscript. Proofs will be sent to the authors and should be returned -->
  <!-- preferably within 48 hours to avoid publication delays. -->

> <!-- \end{itemize} -->

Reviewer: Why comment out this part ?

# A Placeholder Section {#sec:placeholder}

\lipsum[4-7]

# Citing References {#sec:citations}

The citations are in the author-year format with the
\texttt{chicago} bibstyle.

A bibfile contains all the citations in
bibtex format is prepared (see \texttt{JDSbib.bib}). Some characters
in the title of the references needs to be protected so that the style
file does not alter it. For example, in the bibtex entry for

> @Pozd:etal:2017, the ``B'' in ``Brownian'' and the ``E'' in
> ``estimation''  following the colon are protected.

Reviewer: FYI, the `smart` extension in Pandoc should be activated, and should take care of inserting those specific quotes

So this should also be possible to write with usual Markdown
```suggestion
@Pozd:etal:2017, the "B" in "Brownian" and the "E" in
"estimation" following the colon are protected.
```
